# Discussion Questions: JS and the DOM

## Objectives
1. Review the Relationship between HTML, CSS, and JavaScript
2. Define the DOM
3. Describe how the DOM can be manipulated with DevTools

## Questions: Frontend File Setup

### How do you link a JavaScript file to an HTML document?
A JavaScript file is linked to an HTML document via the `<script>` tag. For example, `<script src="resources/js/script.js" />` links a local JavaScript file named "script" to the page. The location of the `<script>` tag pertains to where the developer wants the browser to load the JavaScript, which is usually in the head or at the end of the body.

### How do you link a CSS file to an HTML document?
Similar to a JavaScript file, a CSS file is linked via a tag. This tag is appropriately named the `<link>` tag. This tag is placed in the head of the HTML file. An example of a CSS link is the following: `<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="resources/css/style.css" />`. The `rel` attribute of the `<link>` tag describes the relationship between the HTML file and the destination. The `type` attribute gives the Multipurpose Internet Mail Extensions (MIME) type of content at link destination. The `href` attribute gives the URL of the linked document.

### What are the roles of HTML, CSS, and JavaScript on a webpage?
One metaphor for the roles of HTML, CSS, and JavaScript comes from grammar, where HTML is the noun, CSS the adjective, and JavaScript the verb. HTML is the markup language that provides the structure and substance of a webpage, while CSS is language of style rules that dresses it up. JavaScript is a scripting language that allows you to manipulate HTML and CSS. It works with the browser and 3rd-party APIs to create interactive and dynamic site content.

### What is the DOM? How is it related to HTML, CSS, and JavaScript?
According to the Mozilla Developer Network,
> The Document Object Model (DOM) is the data representation of the objects that comprise the structure and content of a document on the web. ... [It]  is a programming interface for HTML and XML documents. 

Rephrased more succinctly,
> The DOM is an object-oriented representation of the web page, which can be modified with a scripting language such as JavaScript.

The DOM is generated by a browser when it loads a web page (an HTML file).


## Chrome DevTools Rapidfire

Chrome's Developer Tools are powerful tools for inspecting and debugging frontend applications. With your group, explore the DevTools for your new frontend project and answer the following questions:

- How do you open the Developer Tools?
    - ctrl + shift + i on PC, comand + option + i on Mac
- How do you log different values from your JavaScript program to the Console tab? How do you log multiple values at once?
    - `console.log`, baby! There's also `console.info`, `console.error`, and 11 other `console.` methods.
- How do you use JavaScript's `debugger` keyword?
    - Slap that puppy on a line and watch as your code's execution is stopped (if debugging is available).
- How do you highlight an element in the DOM from the Elements tab?
    - Just move your mouse over!
- How do you find the DOM representation of an element that's displayed on the page? (Hint: Check the mouse-in-square button in the top navigation bar of the DevTools)
    - Look at the hint.
- How do you change the content that appears on the page using the Elements tab?
    - Modify anything in the Elements tab.
- What do each of the Elements, Console, Sources, and Network tabs show you?
    
